---
templateKey: blog-post
title: A Day in the Life
date: 2020-07-29T07:00:00.000Z
description: In the spirit of "take one day at a time," this will be a "day in
  the life" piece. And the day I'm choosing is last Friday.
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/img_4582.jpg
tags:
  - homeschool
  - learning
  - math
  - reading
  - play
  - self care
  - siblings
---


We've finally gotten A, my 1.5 year old, to sleep in to a decent hour in the morning so everyone is up by 6am (I'll let you imagine what hour we were getting up before). After stumbling around the kitchen for a while making breakfast, I get to head downstairs to the guest room. Since quarantine started my husband, M and I agreed I could have some time in the morning to be alone and now we call the guest room my sanctuary (or at least that's what I call it). Since M's commute has turned into 10 steps to the basement, I've really been able to keep up with a solid routine of exercise and meditation. I've almost become a Zen monk now, but I'll keep you posted on my progress.

When I come up from my sanctuary, the 2 boys and 1 man are in the backyard and M and O, my 5 year old, tell me they spotted a bird from our Audobon book. O continues flipping through it for a while in the morning after M goes to work and we talk about some of the plants we've been seeing on our nature walks.

Reading time continues as A finds *Where's Spot?* and looks at it on the bed. For a while now he's been entertaining himself by bringing a book to the bed, tucking his feet under the covers and looking at the pictures. It's basically adorable. O has been interested in learning to read so we've been making our way through the [Bob Books](https://bobbooks.com/) series. He decided to read his latest book *Hop* (a classic).

We've also been keeping track of how many days are in the year since the beginning of 2020. M and I made this felt calendar when O was 3, but now it's come in handy while doing some calendar math. We've been pretty lousy at keeping up with the days recently, but then we get to do all sorts of fun mathy things like counting how many days since the last time we looked at it and adding lots of straws to our counting bins. I can't help myself and O loves numbers so it works out okay.

After that I announce that it's Independent Play Time. I give this time capitals because it's very important to me. Sometimes the kids follow the program and other times they hang on my legs as I walk around the house trying to "do my things." On this day, A wanted to be held and O needed to offload some fears he has about fires. So, oh well. I did end up with some pictures that look like they might include independent play!

After a quick snack we head out on the ebike to [](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurelhurst_Park)the park. As we're riding by, O says he sees something cool so we turn around and investigate. Someone had made some fun structures so we decided to park the bike and play there.

Next to the cool structures there is a big wall that O decides to climb on too. He's been really into climbing these days and while he's an extremely cautious person, he's been pushing himself a little more.

We keep exploring the park and O is very chiper and chatty. We have a little snack and he asks all sorts of questions like, "how is wind made?" We talk a little bit about our ideas and then he starts drumming on his snack container and says, "look I can make different notes on my snack box!" A wants more hugging. It's a hugging kind of day for him.

We wander around a bit more and O finds two sticks that he can put together to look like an arrow. We also find a sandy hole and O declares, "All we need to have fun is a hole and some sand!"

Okay, is it lunchtime yet? That's usually what I ask myself around 10:30am. Anyway, we head back from the park and it IS lunchtime! Another agreement M and I made after quarantine was that I get to sit outside by myself and eat and listen to the birds. This is lovely and I don't think I can ever go back.

After lunch A goes down for his nap and O and I have our "special time." For 20 minutes he gets to call the shots and I'll play anything he wants with my full excited attention. On this day he wanted to make the paper cup telephones from a book of science activities we have. It was fun, but he was disappointed with the results-- "I can't understand anything you're saying!" I mean, it's no iphone or anything....

After special time O gets to have his daily dose of screen time. He's been on a real Sesame Street kick and we've been watching it on Amazon Prime, which means they're all at least 10 years old. This means people like Adam Sandler sometimes pop up and surprise you.

The rest of the afternoon is spent playing with the train set in our playroom, more reading, strumming a guitar, and then heading outside. O likes to do "ball tricks" on the big exercise ball and A roams around the yard picking things up and depositing them in other locations. A does start a game of "roll the big ball down the cement ramp," which O is happy to join in on too.

At 5:15 M heads upstairs from work and a rousing game of "mist tag" gets played. Everyone is happy to have such a fun person to play with!

After the boys go to bed, M and I sometimes try to nurture our souls, but usually we end up eating ice cream and watching TV. Seems fine enough. Since this day was Friday, I went to pick up our CSA haul and then spent the evening chopping, washing, and organizing it all so it's more easily accessible during the day when there are two monkeys hanging on me.

Put this day on repeat with slightly varying levels of kid independence/squabbles and you've got a pretty good picture of what our life looks like right now. It's busy and messy but if you look between the cracks, the boys are growing.